Natural Language Processing

Natural language processing (NLP) is a subfield of linguistics, computer science, and artificial intelligence concerned with the interactions between computers and human language, in particular how to program computers to process and analyze large amounts of natural language data. The goal is a computer capable of "understanding" the contents of documents, including the contextual nuances of the language within them. The technology can then accurately extract information and insights contained in the documents as well as categorize and organize the documents themselves.

“What is spaCy?” 

spaCy (yes, spelled with a lowercase “s” and uppercase “C” is a natural language processing framework. Natural language processing, or NLP, is a branch of linguistics that seeks to parse human language in a computer system. This field is generally referred to as computational linguistics, though it has far reaching applications beyond academic linguistic research.

NLP is used in every sector of industry, from academics who leverage it to aid in research to financial analysts who try and predict the stock market. Lawyers use NLP to help analyze thousands of legal documents in seconds to target their research and medical doctors use it to parse patient charts. NLP has been around for decades, but with the increased promise of deep learning, a subfield of machine learning, that NLP rapidly expanded. This is because, as we shall learn all too well throughout this book, language is inherently ambiguous. By this, I mean that language does not always make perfect sense. In some cases, it is entirely illogical. The double-negative in English is a good example of this. In some contexts, it can be an emphatic positive, as in, “I cannot stress this enough, I do not like pasta.” This is, of course a lie. I love pasta, but you get my point. In other cases, the double negative can be an emphatic negative, as in, “I ain’t not doing that!”

As humans, especially native speakers of a language, we can parse these complex illogical statements with ease, especially with enough context. For computers, this is not always easy.

Because NLP is such a complex problem for computers, it requires a complex solution. The answer has been found in artificial neural networks, or ANNs or neural nets for short. These are the primary areas of research for deep learning practitioners. As the field of deep learning (and machine learning in general) expand and advance, so too does NLP.